->WATERFALL METHOD:
In 1970, Dr. Winston Royce coined the term "waterfall methodology" as a way to develop software in a step-by-step order.
With this methodology, developers move from one step to the next.
Returning to previous steps can cause the developer to lose their progress or require them to repeat their previous work.
A development team completes the waterfall workflow in six main steps.

The first step is to establish project requirements.
The second step is to design the software.
In the third step, the team develops the software.
The fourth step is to test the code.
The fifth step is to release the project.
Lastly, the sixth step is to conduct maintenance for any issues that arise post-deployment.

->PIPELINES:
software pipelines include automated integration and testing, code validation, and reporting measures.

->CI/CD PIPELINES:
CI/CD is a process DevSecOps teams use to create software and automate updates. The first phase, CI, is where developers continuously create and update code that’s uploaded into a shared repository. uploading the code automatically triggers a validation process, builds an image, and then stores the code in a repository.

The second phase, CD, actually has two meanings, the first being continuous delivery.
Continuous delivery standardizes the continuous release of software builds to a staging or testing environment.
Changes to code are automatically tested for bugs and merged into a repository.
Like with continuous integration, automated tests validate any code or build updates.
The second meaning of CD is continuous deployment.
Unlike continuous delivery, continuous deployment automatically deploys builds into a production environment in real time.
Manual approval is not required for the updated software to be pushed out to end users.
Continuous deployment can be thought of as an extension of continuous delivery.

The CI/CD pipeline has four key stages: source, build, test, and deploy.
 service account is a non-human identity that is typically granted to virtual machines, applications, and services.