The shared responsibility model is the implicit and explicit agreement between the customer and the cloud service provider, or CSP, regarding the shared accountability for security controls.
The customer is responsible for configuring their services to meet their specific security and compliance requirements.
The customer is also responsible for securing their data.
Organizations have to consider the security requirements of the people using their apps and resources.
In these cases, the focus is to secure data in the cloud.

->CHALLENGES:
1. Users often get confused about where the provider’s responsibility ends and theirs begins
2. Customer misconfigurations can lead to security breaches despite provider safeguards.
3. Maintaining compliance can be tricky since both provider and customer have different responsibilities.

->CLOUD MIGRATION:
Questions to consider:
The folowing questions are relevant when an organization considers migrating resources to
 the cloud.

1. Whichsecurity controls are your responsibility?
 First, it’s important to determine which security controls are necessary for your organization.
 To start, put together a list of your assets, and determine the types of controls needed to
 secure them.

2. Whichsecurity controls are available as part of the cloud o ering?
 Onceyouknowwhichcontrols your organization needs, your next step is to review the
 controls that the CSP o ers to determine which ones align with your security requirements.
 CSPsshould beable to provide you with detailed documentation of their security services
 along with the controls they own or share with their customers.

3.  Whichdefault security controls are inherited?
 Whenmigrating to the cloud, it’s also important to consider inherited security controls. For
 example, the CSP might o erencryption and infrastructure-level controls by default. This
 arrangement means your organization would automaticaly receive these controls, which
 would help strengthen your security posture from the start.

4. Whatareyourorganization’s compliance obligations?
 Animportant factor for sharing responsibility with a CSP involves compliance obligations. If
 your organization must comply with any industry or government regulations, those
 requirements wi l play a signi cant role in moving your workloads to the cloud. Your
 organization wi l need to closely examine where the CSP wil run your resources to verify
 compliance.

5. Whatarethesecurity requirements for your customers and contractors?
 Security requirements are not just relevant for organizational personnel; entering an
 agreement with CSPs involves considering al parties who engage with your cloud resources.
 For example, the users interacting with your services and the contractors your organization
 uses are al a ectedbyamigration. You’l have to consider how access privileges wil change
 for contractors, and how privacy disclosures may change for users