IMPORTANT TERMS:
1. Zone: collective number of data centers in an area.
2. Region: Multiple zones make one region.
3. Failure domain: A resource that can fail without impating availability of data.
4. Resiliency: Ability to prepare for,respond to, and recover from disruptions.
5. Redundancy: Practice of having multiple copies of data in different locations to avoid a single point of failure.
6. Latency: The time it takes for data to travel from one location to another.

-> CLOUD DEPLOYMENT MODEL:

1.Public:
delivers computing, storage, and network resources through internet, allowing users to share ondemand resources.
a. multi-tenant environment: 
environment in which cloud infrastructure and resources are shared among users.
like owning an office space.

2. Private:
dedicated to a single user or organisation and are created, managed and owned within on premises data centers. It is a single tenant environment. like owning a business.

3. Hybrid:
Combines public and private models so organisations can enjoy both cloud services and control features of on premises cloud models. like having a storage unit.

MULTICLOUD:
Using one or more CSP.

GOOGLE'S TRUSTED INFRASTRUCTURE:

1. Secure low-level infrasturcture:
it is the physical aspect of the data center's infrastructure, which includes the security of data centers, servers and the software run on those devices. Access is very restricted. 

2. Secure service deployment:
Google uses zero trust security model. All users, devices and systems must be authenticated and authorised before gaining access to the network. 

3. Secure data storage:
enforce encryption at rest. encrypts data thats not actively in use, so malicious actors cant view sensitive information. 

4. Secure internet communication:
Google's infra is isolated from the public internet through the use of private ip address space, this defends against DoS and other cyber related attacks.

5. Operational security:
using verified code libraries, integrating manual security reviews, safeguarding employee devices and credentials, monitoring for threats.

->BENEFITS:
1. time to market
2. scalability
3. cost savings
4. collaboration
5. security (CIA Triad)

->LIMITATIONS:
1. shift in infrastructural control.
2. security concerns.
3. migrating existing systems.

->CLOUD COMPUTING:

Cloud computing refers to the practice of using on-demand computing resources as services hosted over the internet.

->INSTANCE:

In cloud computing, an instance is a server resource that runs workloads in the cloud.

->EPHEMERALITY:
Ephemerality is the concept that things only exist for a short amount of time. Ephemerality is the concept that things only exist for a short amount of time.

three main categories of cloud computing resources: compute, storage, and networks.
1. compute:
compute refers to computation performed by a physical computer in a remote environment.
2. storage:
Cloud data storage is a solution that enables organizations to keep, access, and maintain digital data on off-site, cloud-based storage devices.
3. network:
networks in the cloud run using software, unlike traditional networks that require physical devices.